# Message for Friends (Leaving RCF)

Our dearest brothers and sisters in Christ, 

You may have noticed that we have not been present at church for quite sometime, and we wanted to let you know why. After Theo's birth, we became more uneasy about the lack of service requirements put in place at RCF, mainly wearing masks and practicing social distancing. This put us in a tricky situation, as we wanted to attend church as Theo got past the 6 week phase, but our conscience was not at ease taking him to the service the ways things are. We spoke with the elders this week and voiced our concerns. We were able to express to the elders that attending the service would violate our conscience since we want to ensure the safety of ourselves and Theo. We of course respect the decisions the elders have made, but also need to honor our conscience.

With that said, we have decided that we can no longer attend RCF, as the elders are unable to change the restrictions for the service. This was not an easy decision to come to, and it is the result of a lot of discussion and prayer between the two of us. We do not want to cut ties with RCF, but we recognize the importance of being an active part of a church body, and under the current circumstances we do not feel safe attending RCF. We are sorrowful over this decision, and we want to assure you that there is no hostility between us, the elders of RCF, or the members. All of the elders understood our position and hate to see us leave, but they recognized that we need to follow how God is leading our consciences. We are grateful for how they have expressed nothing but kindness and understanding in our decision.

We want to make it clear that we are not trying to cut off ties with RCF and its members. We will be attending another church and committing our fellowship to them, but we will want to continue our existing friendships at RCF. We still deeply love and care about the members (including all of you!), and this decision is in no way personal. 

We understand this news will bring sadness and possibly some confusion, and we understand that. We are also dealing with the sadness and loss of leaving RCF. But please know that we love every single soul at this church, we love the leadership, and that will not change just because we have decided we need to move on. This departure is not one of personal grievances or malice, but personal convictions and principles. We hope you all understand that even with this decision, we do not judge anyone who continues to attend RCF. We know all of you are following your consciences in regard to safety just as we are. We pray nothing but peace, grace, and love for you all. We want to thank everyone at RCF for their love, encouragement, and support over the years. We would not be the people we are today if it weren’t for you, and we will never forget the time we've been given with you all. We pray that there would be no division among us, that we would still recognize that we are one in our Savior Christ Jesus, and we pray that God would continue to work mightily in the body of RCF. May He shower you with His grace, love, and affection. May you continue to spread the gospel with fervency, and may you continue to build one another up. 
