# Response to Kenny’s Accusations

- The address felt less of a personal conversation, and more of an RCF address - This past Thursday, Kenny gave me a call about some concerns he had about Madison and particularly myself in regards to our decision to no longer attend RCF. These concerns mentioned were quite serious, and I believe an answer must be given not just to Kenny, but to Mike and my father as well. I wanted to walk through the course of discussion we had and address each concern.
- Order of conversation:
    - Miscommunication on that Tuesday morning - On the Tuesday morning call I had with the elders, I began with asking the reasoning behind the current measures at RCF to deter COVID-19. Context: Before this conversation we had attended the early service when we could, as Madison was rapidly approaching her due date with Theo, and during one of them Mike announced that the congregation would be moving upstairs in November. Some of the people in that service raised some concern, and Mike answered those concerns, but was fairly clear that this a firm path and encouraged everyone to attend. At this point Madison and I weren't sure quite what to do, and decided to cross that bridge when we got there. A week or two later Theo is born, and we begin a six week stay at home period that we agreed on before COVID was ever a concern. Eventually the week was approaching when we had to make a decision about RCF, and what precautions were we going to take with Theo as a newborn. For the first time Madison and I had a conversation about what we would do as parents to keep Theo safe during the pandemic, and agreed on where our conscience lay. Before this conversation, we would make decisions and do things in order to please other people at the stake of our conscience. When we came to the decision of what precautions we would take, I knew I had to speak with the elders. I wanted to know why they chose the path they took for COVID, to perhaps gain some understanding, and I wanted to voice my concerns as well. After listening to the elders and their reasoning, I knew that there wasn't going to be much budging on their decision, and as much as it killed me, I understood. I wanted to respect the elders and their decisions, understanding they were doing what they thought was best for the congregation. The measures we needed in order to not sin against our conscience were simply not possible at RCF. At that point I had to say that we were stuck, that we needed to attend a physical church as our souls were suffering from being away from the body, yet we also could not sin against our conscience. I told the elders that we may need to look for another church. During my phone call with Kenny last week on Thursday he addressed a possible miscommunication, that I did not clearly state that I was leaving the church for good, and that he only knew that because of a phone call we had later that Tuesday. Kennt said that by sending a text message out to some of the congregation saying we had elder approval was perhaps wrong, since I did not truly know Mike and my father's response. To this I deeply apologize, for I did not want to misconstrue any words or authority of the elders. By the way Mike responded, saying he understood why we may need to make this decision, made me believe that what I said was clear. Also the conversation I had with Kenny that Tuesday afternoon made me believe that he had given us his approval, as he suggested several churches we could attend, fully aware that we would not return. We also thought this was a given since the way RCF has taught us to do fellowship, is that one cannot commit to another body for 6-9 months in the same area, then go back RCF as if nothing had happen. We thought that would be obvious to the elders, for which we do apologize if our text on Thursday was premature. We wanted a clear message to communicate why we did what we did, that there was no malice at play here, and that we were following our conscience.
    - Three occurrences - From there Kenny said that he was worried that I had grown hasty; quick to run away from problems in the body rather than deal with them. To support this he mentioned three incidents in the past year.
        - Eissing’s study - The first incident Kenny mentioned was the Bible study I was leading at the Eissing's in last 2019. Originally my study was meeting on Sunday nights at our house, and Kenny in attempt to include the Eissing's (who were not members at the time), asked me if I could lead the study at their house. I agreed because I too wanted to see the long attended Eissing's feel included in our body. Most of my Bible study was made of outcast and non-popular members in the body, and I loved that. As we started hosting the event at the Eissing's, I realized this was going to be much more challenging than I was anticipating. On the first night, hardly anyone engaged with the study, answered questions, etc. When I finished, Mark decided to ask his own questions, addressing the study as the leader, and particularly his family. It was rather cold, and Mark was quite critical of my study style. He even took his concern to Kenny, and I took my concerns to Kenny. Kenny encouraged me that I needed to press forward, that this wouldn't be easy, but it would get better with time. He too felt awkwardness and slight hostility when he first went to the Eissing's, but said it improves as they get to know you. I then tried to continue the study for another month or two, with little improvement. It was discouraging to see some of my old members drop out and no longer attend, to have the most of the Eissing's kids sit at a table 15 feet away and not pay attention, to look at Mark browse his phone and not listen. This was a challenging scenario, and in the end, I believed I failed. I eventually told the group that we had too much going on, that seminary was demanding and I needed the time to focus on that rather than prepare a half baked Bible study. These things were true, and was in my opinion the main reason I stopped, but I also have to admit that I failed them. To respond to Kenny that this was one of my hasty instances, I would in part say I agree, but in another sense I would ask for grace. This was a hard situation, and doing it without any other elders or elder candidates felt impossible. I should have asked for help because I did not have the authority to satisfy Mark, as he was already critical of the elder candidate program at the time. I had led countless Bible studies before, faithfully. I had welcomed and brought members in that didn't even come to our church. This task given to me was perhaps a bit too much for me at the time with everything else I had going on.
        - Text to the elders about Madison’s nursery responsibilities - The second instance Kenny said that I had been hasty was in regards to a text message I had sent to the elders about Madison's involvement with nursery. As a backdrop, this was in late August as Madison's due date was approaching in September. She had been faithfully serving as the nursery coordinator, putting all her effort into it. All of you know that this is not an easy job, and Madison took a lot of grief over it. There would be times we both weeped, yet she pressed forward and didn't give up. The pregnancy wasn't a cake walk either, as each trimester was challenging. In May her internship ended with RUF, and she began a post-partum doula service. Unfortunately this was not bringing in any income, so she started door dashing so we could keep paying our bills. I continued to work from home, 40+ hours a week, and she would deliver food in the morning for a few hours, well into her third trimester. This was a hard time for us. In the midst of this, the elders wanted to start having nursery in the service again. Madison did her best to assemble what workers she had, even though more than half of the volunteers would not return yet due to COVID concerns. Filling the schedule in a regular year would be challenging, as she did ask the elders before for help. She just barely got enough people to cover the service, and then in August she was asked to take men out of the rotation for the concern of some parents. This crushed her; young men like Travis or Nathaniel were of the few people actually willing to serve, and now she had little to no one. It seemed impossible. I had to watch my wife, once again weep over her weight as nursery coordinator. In a moment full of emotion, I sent a text to the elders saying that Madison would stop in September because this was too much. Kenny said the text was harsh, that it made the elders sound like the bad guy. If that is the case I do apologize, for that was not my intention. I was concerned for my wife who was in so much anguish and I couldn't bear it anymore. I don't know if I would say this was an example of being hasty, or not facing a problem within RCF. Perhaps an improper tone, but she was giving birth within a month. In a practical sense she was going to be stopping soon anyway, and I felt like after this instance it was time. All the same I do apologize if this text hurt any of you.
        - Decision to leave the church - Kenny said the third instance of being hasty was in regards to our decision to leave RCF in response to the COVID-19 measures. Kenny said that instead of discussing this for multiple weeks, and giving the elders time to respond and think of ways to solve our problem, we gave them an ultimatum. When Kenny finished our second conversation on Tuesday, he said the next day he was thinking of ways we could make this work. He said he tossed around the idea of holding another at risk service in the sanctuary where the American Philippino church was meeting, and that he was asking other people if they would be interested in such a service. He said all of this unfortunately crumbled when I sent a text out on Thursday evening, stopping any possibility of this happening. Kenny said this seemed to be a hasty decision, that we had not taken our time, and that we broke our membership covenant because we had not done everything we could to keep unity within the Body. This made him think that there must be some other motive for us leaving, that surely we would not leave a body that had loved us so dearly over something like COVID so quickly. Kenny asked if it was possibly our political leanings, or perhaps our social justice concerns that made our decision, and COVID was just a convenient way out. He was also concerned that we were looking for greener pastures, that he didn't understand what we could be looking for that could be better than the body of RCF that had loved us so much. He questioned why we were considering a presbyterian church where I would not be able to serve in church leadership. Furthermore, Kenny was concerned about my character. He said an elder/pastor has no business being hasty to abandon the Body of Christ, and that even if I did return to RCF I would not be an elder candidate. This was a serious charge and I told Kenny that I needed to examine myself and spend time in prayer over this. I want to address each of these topics carefully and individually.
            - In reference to being too hasty to leave RCF, I would disagree that we were being hasty. The truth is that my family comes first, and my family's spiritual health comes first. We were looking at a scenario where we would not be attending church in person, and even the time we had spent apart from the church was hurting us spiritually. When I discussed with the elders about their decision, searching for the motives and reasons, I knew that these motives and methods would not change. They were doing what they thought was best for the body, and I had no intentions of pining away asking for them to reconsider, to change their minds, or make special accommodations for us. In my mind and in my heart, I wanted to respect the decision of the elders, not fight against it. I also knew we could not wait for an indefinite period of time to make a decision, as we desperately needed to partake in physical fellowship without sinning against our conscience. To us this was urgent, and as much as I love RCF and the people here, my family comes first. I am willing to spend and be spent, but not at the cost of spending my family. If there is a disagreement to this ministry philosophy I understand, but this is what I truly believe. I don't believe this decision was in violation of our membership covenant.
            - As to social justice and politics, yes we do have some differing opinions than the majority of RCF members. However, this has been the case for a long time, and we have never seen this as grounds for separation. We submitted to the authority of our elders by not trying to convince people of these opinions or spread it as some kind of bad theology/ideology, but kept our opinions to ourselves. We believe the body of Christ has bounds stronger than that of politics.
            - I also believe we are not looking for greener pastures, as Kenny is correct: there is no Body of believers out there that has loved us as much as RCF has. We will never attend a church that is quite like RCF again, and that deeply saddens us. Again, we left RCF because of our conscience and our need to be in church. We are looking at attending a presbyterian church, but this is only because we have already looked at reformed baptist churches. None of them have clear COVID guidelines, which is why we left RCF in the first place. There are plenty of "baptist" churches in the area, but truthfully we believed we would have more in common with Presbyterians than a half-theological baptist church. This does prevent me from serving in a leadership capacity in the immediate church, but right now the spiritual needs of my family are more demanding. I have faith that if God has called me to ministry, then He will work His will in my life. I am currently working on becoming a web developer in order to get a better salary, in hopes to help pay for the seminary training that I long to finish. After or during that time we are still considering the mentorship program in Vermont with goals to birth a church there one day.
            - On the last statement in regards to my character as an elder candidate, I deeply prayed and asked others for their assessment of my character. I prayed that God would convict any sin in my heart with this issue, and after much prayer and discussion with others who have known me for years, I can say that I don't believe this is an accurate representation of my character. I would hope that the elders would recall my history with RCF, the 8 years of my life that I have dedicated to loving the Body of Christ. I would hope the elders remember every Sunday I led worship, every sermon I preached, every Bible study I led, every gym session I drove Jason too when his dad left him, every moment I spent with Matthew Doty when he wanted to kill himself, every elder candidate that I brought into the Body through Aromas, every call I made to Jordan Powell when no one else did, every member I prayed for and loved deeply. I won't lie, this last year has been hard. Having a baby during a global pandemic and struggling with trying to do the right thing as a parent has been difficult. In my phone call with Kenny on the Tuesday we made our decision, I expressed my deepest concerns that people in the Body might be hurt, that they wouldn't understand why we did what we did, and how we wanted them to know we still loved them and have no ill intentions for leaving. Kenny said he would have done the same thing if it meant the safety of his family. I hope that the years of my life spent on RCF would reflect my character more than the moments of failure I had this year.
    - Leaving RCF has been the hardest decision I've ever had to make. Leaving my church family is no small matter to me. I'm dearly going to miss the level of fellowship that I had with everyone. My wish, is that we would leave as brothers and sisters in Christ. I pray that there would be no unturned stone, that there would be no reason for division in our relationships. This church has meant so much to me for so long, and I will never forget or be ungrateful for the work God has done through RCF. I would not be the man I am today without God's work here, and will never take it for granted.
