
Created: August 28, 2021 10:07 AM

I didn’t go to church today.

It’s been almost a year since Madison and I left RCF, and it’s been incredibly hard for me. Why you might ask? That’s a good question, one I don’t entirely know the answer to. I need to begin answering these questions, the questions of what happened, why I feel the way I do, and how do I restore my relationship with Christ?

Here’s a list of starting questions that should help with my introspection:

1. Where are you right now?

2. What are you feeling?

## Where are you right now?

Right now I feel lost, and like my relationship with Christ almost doesn’t exist. I don’t read my bible, I rarely pray, my thoughts are so much more focused on things of this earth. I guess you could say that my Christianity is merely a cultural performance. I still try to go to church. When we left RCF I assumed things needed to continue similarly to the way they had been going; I needed to continue attending church, I needed to continue leading my family spiritually. I did continue going to a new church, and its really a great church. The people, the teaching, the grace and compassion towards the community, its all amazing. Yet as I attended church, there was no joy, there was no devotion to Christ. And today, when Theo didn’t wake up in time for all three of us to go to church, I jumped in the car and left for church. But I didn’t go; I drove past the collegiate school where our church was meeting. I kept driving, because it didn’t feel right. I felt like I didn’t belong. Now I’m at a place where I recognize that I need to confront this. I can’t be lazy anymore and just bash evangelicals, I need to seek the truth. I need answers to the fundamental questions: why do I feel this way and what do I need to change?

## What are you feeling?

I feel so much pain and brokenness. I have been bottling up my feelings for so long, denying that anything was wrong or that I was in trouble. I feel lost, because I don’t know where to go or what the future holds. I feel shame, as my wife married me because I was a man of faith, I was going to be a pastor, but now I have hardly any faith left at all. If my wife met me in this stage of my life she would probably pass me by. Deep down I think I’m still bitter about what happened at RCF, how they continue to handle people the way I was handled.

## What did RCF do?

Thats a big question I really need to face. I think it goes back to when Kenny said I should step down as worship leader since Matthew was coming back, and since I was going to be pursuing pastoral leadership. I think he put it in a way that made sense to me, and even though it made me sad, he made it feel like it was the right thing to do. But I knew that would cut my income significantly in a time I needed it most, as I used all my savings to help pay for our wedding. I had to do Uber just to make by, spending late nights driving old wasted guys to strip clubs across the water and sorority girls from party to party as they puked on the side of my car. That was tough, and it was hard knowing it was because Kenny wanted to hire Matthew as the worship leader.

As time went on, I started to realize RCF treated Madison differently. She wasn’t welcomed in, she didn’t have any friends. If she joined a circle to talk to some girls they would stop talking. Madison was a social person enough to know when she was not welcomed. I didn’t believe her at the time, I regurgitated what was told to me: “oh you just need to commit to people so they can get to know you.” The responsibility was flipped to Madison, a girl who moved away from home to be with me, who struggled being away from her family, who dealt with crippling anxiety; somehow this was her fault. I feel so much shame for how I handled that as her husband, and I can see it more clearly now.

Since I was booted as worship leader I did my best to continue the path of becoming a pastor. I did seminary classes online, I preached sermons, I led Bible studies. I even brought in more members into the church, young men that wanted to be elders too. We started a group of “elder candidates” that met every Sunday morning at 6am. I was set as the guy who would plant the next church, Kenny would hint promises such as “oh we’re probably gonna hire an associate pastor and you’re it.” At the time I was burning out in my day job, I struggled to hold onto the call to preach since the majority of my time was spent in a bank. Kenny stopped meeting with me on a weekly basis because there were too many other elder candidates that needed to meet up with him. This went on for a few years, and it really hit me hard when they hired Matthew on as the full time worship leader / pastor. They didn’t label it as a pastor role since Matthew was not an elder, but he would be assist Kenny with all the work that needed to be done. I think everyone felt the tension when this was announced, because everyone knew I worked part time for 4 years and was eventually swapped out. They knew I was in line to be a pastor or elder. Yet the constant urging of the elders was “oh if you want to be an elder you just need to take on the responsibility and do the work; the title is just a title.” My parents were even hurt from this decision, we had to have a sit down with Kenny and Mike. My parents felt deceived by them and this decision, but we were all gaslighted. Kenny flipped it as a misunderstanding. I had a lot of bitterness because of this, I even tried to talk it out with Kenny further and he simply said that he didn’t feel like he did anything wrong, and that if I had a problem then I needed to deal with it. So I eventually resolved to put away this bitterness, that despite all that happened, it was not the right thing to do. Looking back now, I’m not sure if that pain was ever resolved. I think it stuck, I think it’s in my heart now. Bitterness? Perhaps, but more so pain and hurt.

The next thing that struck was the cut I had in my seminary funding. Kenny originally wanted RCF to help fund my seminary education, and they did for a year or so, but as the elder candidate group grew, he understandably wanted to help them too. So the elders decided that every elder candidate would get 2000 a year flat, and this just simply wasn’t enough to pay for my courses. I didn’t have the money, I was still paying off my old student loans. My parents were gracious enough to help me out with costs and I was able to continue for a little while longer. I think in this instance I just felt like an old rag doll; I didn’t feel cared for. No one really cared that I wanted to pursue this, Kenny didn’t care, he promised help but it fell short. What little hope I had held onto to become a pastor was barely there; I didn’t know how I was going to continue.

Then the pandemic hit, 2020, a wild year for sure. Madison became pregnant, and unfortunately we were put at odds with how RCF was handling health precautions. When they cut off the at risk service and stopped streaming the service, it was made clear that it was time for everyone to attend in person. This was the beginning of November, when my first born was only a couple of months old, and we didn’t feel safe going in person when no one was wearing masks or practicing social distancing. I called the elders, trying to reason with them, but it was made clear that they were doing what seemed best for the congregation at the time. At this point I had to tell them that we needed to attend another church. Mike was understanding, he thought it was a big mistake, but understood this was a decision we needed to make. My dad was emotional, and I’ll never forget when I was pleading Romans 14, that we should be laying down freedoms for the weaker Christian, and my own father said

“well you know what I think no one ever addresses in that passage? When does the younger Christian GROW UP.”

I remember being stunned, hurt, and responding “thats not the purpose of that passage.” Kenny was hurt and sad, he couldn’t understand why we were doing this.

The next day Kenny called me and we talked about it more. He was crying over the phone, he didn’t want it to happen, but he said he understood that if this was our conviction then he would have done the same thing. He even gave church suggestions for where we could go, in that moment he was still pastoring our souls to make sure we were taken care of. We sent a message a few days later to church members about our decision to let people know that we were leaving. We thought maybe that was it, but a week later I get a call from Kenny.

Kenny said that he still couldn't get around why we left, and he thought that it might have been something else. He said that I was being hasty, and that I have been hasty with some other instances in the church. He basically attacked my character, said that I had broken the covenant we made with the church, and that we were abandoning the body. He said we were in sin. This shook me to my core; I didn't know what to say. I told him I would need to pray about this and think about it. As I told Madison about that conversation on that fateful Thursday night, I was shaking from the adrenaline. I was shaken to my core; was I bad person for acting on my convictions? Was I being hasty? I had to pray about it, I talked to my parents to hear what they thought. I concluded that I was not being hasty, and that this was the time to break from RCF. I wrote up a defense for the elders, I wanted to make sure we were breaking clean. That we would not be pursued in church discipline for this. I presented it to the elders and their wives, and it was rough. Kenny still denied what he said on the phone, asking why I would do something like this. My dad and Mike were pretty silent, since this was basically a confrontation of Kenny. We ended with some level of understanding, but not really. We hugged each other good bye and that was it. It's still hard to understand where we are now with this whole thing.
