
It seems most people get real hot and huffy every four years when the presidential election rolls around, and everyone takes sides and argues at the Thanksgiving table. For me, it never really was a big deal. I never took politics too seriously, as my parents were third party voters and didn't believe in the effectiveness of a two part system, or the benefit of voting to one candidate or the other. But in the year 2020, something is different. 

The division among the left and right seems to be greater than it ever has been before. I think there are several reasons as to why this is, but the main two would be the personality of Trump, and how social media has taken his divisive nature and intensified it. 

In the Trump mindset, it is heavily "us vs them" propagated among his followers. He has no problem disowning a political opponent or something who causes trouble. There is no empathy, or compassion. Trump is a business man, and we should not have expected more from him. This divisive nature really causes trouble when it comes to the issue of racism in America. Trump would never admit being a racist, and I don't think that's entirely necessary. What Trump does, with the us vs them mentality, takes the issue of race and make it about two sides; "which side are you on?" So when a black man is brutally killed by a police officer, people reacted, as they often do when it comes to acts of racism; protest. Rather than having empathy or compassion for the families of these victims, or promoting police reform so that justice is upheld, he criticizes the poor response of looting. As a business man, material and capitalist gains are more important than human life. As more BLM protesting occurred, there emerged something we didn't expect; the alt-right. Suddenly there was a surge of anti-protesters waiving confederate flags and Trump 2020 flags, driving through the streets fighting BLM protestors. While a lot of these alt-right people claim Trump as their man, Trump does not disown them. There is no condemnation of the confederate flag or what it stands for. There is no understanding of the issue of racism and how it still effects people, or how poorly America has recovered from it's racist past. There is a simple and firm spirit of division that says, "are you with us, or against us?" 

This Trump spirit is further propounded by social media. The documentary work "The Social Dilemma," done by the Humane Technology Association, reveals how the early creators of social media made something that has no boundaries. To keep a social media platform running and to be profitable, you have to have advertisements. The capitalist market uses these platforms to keep shoving something you need to buy in your face, whether you want to see it or not. With this strategy, there is a key equation to be considered: time on a given platform = profit. The longer you scroll on your phone, the more ads you see, the more money they make. The question then becomes, how do they keep you on their platform? How do they keep your interest? Enter the algorithm; a set of calculations that uses data they already know about you, like your interests, hobbies, tastes, etc. to keep feeding you more tailored content and more tailored ads. The classic example of this is youtube, with their suggested feed on the side. As you watch a video and it comes to a close, youtube will have another video ready for you to watch that should peak your interest based on their info of you. So you watch it. Then another, and another, until the next thing you know its 3am and you completely lost your day. 

Whats the danger in this? What connection does it have with our current President? The combination of Trump's divisive spirit, and doubtfulness of anything called "news," with the social media algorithms, places a person into a vacuum chamber where all they hear is what they want to hear. Sometimes what they hear is a slick voice that is diving the American people, whether they know it or not. To be fair this is not only a right wing issue, but a left as well. Democrats will find themselves in their own echo chamber, where they refuse to listen to anything a Trump supporter has to say. 

What has been created here is a failure to listen, a failure in democracy. Instead of level headed people promoting their ideas and listening to other people's ideas, we have become a bunch of social media warriors that are being altered by our media intake without even knowing. Our feelings towards those who we once loved can change in an instant if they suddenly become a BLM supporter or a Trump supporter. We no longer listen to people face to face, rather we fire 120 character quips at each other in attempt to break the other person down, and to make them publicly appear as the loser of this argument. 

We have forgotten the phrase, "We the People."
