
This psst week George Floyd, an African American male, was chocked to death by a white police officer. The whole 8 mins of Floyd crying for help were filmed and streamed to the entire internet. It’s truly a gruesome sight to behold, and will make anyone sick to their stomach. The entire nation has literally gone in flames in response to this, as riots and protests break out across American to demonstrate their pain, anger, and frustration.

I feel so much pain and anger myself as I watch and listen to broken people crying out, and seeing how sinful responses escalate. People are looting and destroying businesses, lighting their entire towns on fire, and while I don’t agree with this response, I get it. They feel like they have not been heard, and truthfully I don’t think we have been listening or are currently listening. I believe Martin Luther King Jr once said “riots are the language of the unheard.” As much as people want to deny it, I believe America still suffers from systemic racism. I believe this has flooded into our police systems, and either out of hate or fear, the police have been pushed to aggression. Not all police are this way, but mere man when put into a position of power that is influenced by systemic racism will suffer all the same.

These circumstances are truly the result of the fall. Fallen men are responding to other fallen men’s actions. There is much to be said about how we solve this problem on a national or political level, and I certainly don’t have the answers. However, another question to answer is, “how do we respond to this as Christians?” This question has been tormenting me all week, as I have no idea what African Americans go through on a daily basis. I am willing to admit that my life has an obvious amount of privilege. But how does that play into how I respond as a Christian? Aren’t we all human? In essence, I believe our reaction is straight forward: feel the pain, show sympathy, and show love.

First we need to wake the hell up. We need to watch the video of Floyd being murdered, and we need to watch how America has reacted to it. We need to feel the pain, the pain caused by deep and horrible sin. We can’t bury our heads in the sand and act like everything is fine, and that there is no racism in our current culture. We can’t take the next step forward unless we feel the pain.

Second we need to be sympathetic. James calls us to rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep. This is a simple Christian command that we seem to struggle with as American evangelicals. Sometimes our politics take the place of our religion, and we think more about the property damage than how these people are feeling. Are the riots inherently wrong? Yes. Riots are not the Christian response to this kind of evil. But here’s the big question: does that excuse you from having to show compassion? Does that excuse you from showing sympathy? I would argue no, as Scripture calls us to love those who would do us harm. Sinful people reacting in sinful ways.

That brings us to the last point, showing love. We must show love to the hurting, the angry, the looting, the rioting. Before jumping on Facebook and getting all emotional about businesses going up in flames, perhaps take a moment to listen to the cry of the dying. Listen to the pain in Floyd’s dying words. Feel the emotions people are experiencing. Show sympathy and love towards those who need it.
