

Theodore Wayne Simkins came into the world at 8:32pm on September 19th 2020, weighing a hefty 8 lbs 14 oz. Labor was long and rough, but Madison did a great job! Labor began the previous night at 8:30pm, Madison started having contractions that were 5 mins apart, which was way faster than we anticipated. Normally we would have have them maybe 15 or 30 mins apart, but we went straight into the danger zone; 5 mins. We packed up everything into the car and headed for Richmond where the birth center is located. We explained what Madison was going through to the midwife and she said she was still in early labor, and it wasn't quite time to go into the birth center. Because of this we rented a room in a hotel down the street and stayed the night there. Man that was a rough night. Our birth doula Hunter came to visit us as Madison's contractions stayed at 5 mins and were getting more rough. We didn't know at the time, but Madison was actually in active labor by now and was doing a lot of hard work. The challenge with this is that Madison never really got a chance to sleep. She had a full and active day, went into labor in the evening, and labored hard until morning. We tried to sleep a little bit together but it was still rough. Saturday morning rolls around and the midwife  told us to come to the birth center. We got there and the midwife checked her dilation, and she was already at 8 or 9 cm! They put her in the tub, and we thought the baby would be here by noon. That was not the case. Since Madison was already exhausted, the labor did not progress like it should have. Her cervix began to swell, and so we almost started going backwards. We tried several things to help Madison relax and sleep, but to no avail. Eventually the midwife said the best thing to do would be to transfer us to a hospital and give Madison an epidural. Around 2:30 we got to the hospital and the nurses quickly worked to get Madison knocked out. The epidural was just what she needed! She slept for maybe 3-4 hours, and about 7 the doctors said it was time to push. She pushed for about an hour and half, and there was Theo! 

It was something else to experience, to watch my wife be in so much pain and agony, to see her excitement when Theo came out, to see her motherly instincts kick in and nurse him. Its a day I won't forget! 
